In this lesson, we're gonna implement pathway number one of token based authentication.
Let's remember pathway number one, which was fairly simple.
The user makes a request to slash register.
We are going to have a security rule that permits all requests on the path register without the need
to authenticate and the request is going to get executed and their credentials will get saved to an
SQL database.
All right.
So going back to our security config, every single path needs to be protected except for the sign up
path.
It needs to be public so that people can register.
So what we can do is create another security rule.
We'll say dot and matches and publicly authorize any post request that is made on the path slash register,
which is a constant inside of security constants that java.
Don't permit all.
So any request made here will not require any authentication.
Requests made here will not require authentication as well, but any other request needs to be protected
and will require authentication.
And now the next step of our process is to save the user's credentials when they sign up.
So we'll go back over here inside of user controller Java here.
For some reason it says core service, it should be user service.
And so here we are serializing the contents of the incoming JSON into the properties of a user object
using the request body annotation.
Over here we're going to say user service dot save and we'll save the user.
And the user entity that gets returned will be serialized into JSON and sent back as a response.
All right.
Now, over in grade or user service, we need to make some changes.
The user name can be stored in plain text, so we don't care about that.
But the password needs to be encrypted.
You should never, ever store a password in plain text.
And so for this reason I have ordered the decrypt password encoder bin that we have configured right
over here.
And what I'm going to do is use the Decrypt password encoder to perform a one way hash on the password
that they pass in.
So we'll say B script password, encoder dot encode user, dot get password.
And we're going to set the user's password equal to the hashed password.
Before saving it to our database.
All right.
Think we're ready to run our code?
If you want to view what's happening step by step, you can feel free to run this application in debug
mode in the interest of time.
I'm not going to do that.
All right.
And so to the greater requests collection that we created earlier in the SQL section, I added another
folder called user.
And to the user folder, I'm going to add a request called Create User.
It will be a post request and here we're going to say local host 8080 slash is it slash user slash register.
Let me just make sure it is slash user slash register.
All right.
In the request body.
We're going to include a JSON.
And we expect the contents of our JSON to be serialized and the properties of a user object.
So we need to make sure to send over a username as well as a password.
Here we're going to say username and you can put in whatever you want.
I'll just say Green Dot Slim three.
And the password.
I don't know.
I'm going to say learn the part.
Okay.
I'll send it over.
And it works beautifully.
Our request bypassed all of these filters because we added a security rule that permits every request
made on the register path.
It is publicly available.
Each field in the JSON, each field and the request body was the serialized into the properties of a
user object.
And before saving that user object, we set the password equal to an encoded version of the learn the
part password and then save that into our SQL database.
If we go to the H two console, we will be able to view it.
And there is our user signed up.
Now what if the user were to pass in a blank username or a blank password?
We get back a 400 bad request.
Let's try it with the username as well.
400 bad requests.
The reason this happens, I already set this up for you for the sake of not being redundant.
We covered this many times in the past, but we've got the valid annotation over here that performs
a validation on the user object that gets populated from the fields and the request body.
We added validation constraints on the username and password so that they cannot be blank as the values
from the JSON get serialized into these properties.
Our username and password and the being blank, which is unacceptable.
The validation process fails and the result of this validation was carried inside of a binding result.
And upon sending back an HTTP status of bad request, we appended all of the errors from the binary
result into an error response and sent it over.
All right, we are done with pathway number one.
The user is able to make a request to register without having to authenticate.
The request gets executed and their credentials get saved.
Let's move on to pathway number two.